**Vizzy++** is a SimpleRockets 2 mod containing additional expression, instruction, and event blocks.

# Vizzy++ Elements

## Craft Information Expressions

* Orbital Element¹ ...
    * Right Ascension - The angle between the reference direction and the ascending node.
    * Inclination - The degree of tilt.
    * Argument of Periapsis - The angle between the ascending node and the direction of periapse.
    * True Anomaly - The angle between the direction of the periapse and the current position from the main focus of the orbital ellipse.
    * Semi-Major Axis - Half of the sum of the apoapse and periapse distances.
    * Eccentricity - The shape of the orbit, from circular (0), to parabolic (1), to hyperbolic (>1).
    * Period - The period of the orbit in seconds.
* Advanced Orbital Element¹ ...
    * Angular Momentum - A vector representing the body's rate of rotation around its parent.
    * Apoapse - A vector representing the apoapse of the orbit.
    * Periapse - A vector representing the periapse of the orbit.
    * Orbital Plane Normal - A unit vector perpendicular to the orbital plane.
    * Eccentricity Vector - A vector pointing toward the periapsis of the orbit with a magnitude equal to the eccentricity.
    * Eccentric Anomaly - The current eccentric anomaly. See: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eccentric_anomaly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eccentric_anomaly)
    * Mean Anomaly - The faction of an orbit's period that has elapsed since the orbit passed periapsis in degrees from 0 to 360.
    * Mean Motion - The average angular speed of the orbit in degrees.
* Cartesian State Vector¹ ...
    * Position - The position of the craft or planet relative to its parent.
    * Velocity - The velocity of the craft or planet.
* Get Craft ID - Gets the ID of a specific craft: Targeted, Current, or Active. Craft names are sometimes duplicated, so this is more reliable for use with the other expressions.

¹ _These expressions can take a Planet Name, a Craft Name, or a Craft Id and return the specified value for that object's orbit. If the specified value is blank or a negative number, then the value for the current craft will be returned._

## Text Expressions

 * Text Comparison - Compares pieces of text.
 * Text Transform - Returns the result of a transform of a single text value.
 * Split Text - Returns a list of strings by splitting the input on the specified separators.


## Math Expressions

 * Advanced Unary Math
     * exp - Returns the Euler's Number raised to the specified exponent.
     * sinh - Hyperbolic Sine
     * cosh - Hyperbolic Cosine
     * tanh - Hyperbolic Tangent
     * asinh - Inverse Hyperbolic Sine
     * acosh - Inverse Hyperbolic Cosine
     * atanh - Inverse Hyperbolic Tangent

## Constant Expressions

* π - The mathematical constant PI, 3.14159...
* G - The Universal Gravitation Constant (in cubic meters per kilogram per seconds squared).
* _e_ - Euler's Number (base of natural logarithms).
* c - The speed of light in meters per second.

## Flow Instructions

 * Continue - Stops the execution of the _current iteration_ through a loop, and _continues_ executing the loop from the top, starting with any state change or condition checks.

# Contributing

I welcome contributions to this mod and I would like to make it as easy as possible. If you want to work on something just submit a pull request changing this README file to have your SR2 Website username next to the roadmap item you are working on, and then submit another pull request with the functionality implemented. Following the existing coding style is appreciated, but beyond that if it works and doesn't add unnecessary files I will merge it.

This mod is currently using Unity 2019.2.3f1, and the SimpleRockets 0.9.307 version of the ModAPI.

# Testing

Crafts with Flight Programs that test the Expressions and Instructions should be added to the test folder. Log messages generated by test flight programs should me limited to messages that start with:

 * `PASS!` - A test case passed, including a description of the test
 * `FAIL!` - A test case failed, including a description of the test and the invalid result or state.
 * `ERROR!` - A test could not be performed (for example if the test must be run in orbit and the craft is grounded), including a description of the problem.

# Roadmap

 * Additional Current Craft Information
     * NavSphere settings: Pitch/Heading
     * \[In Progress - @MJBWater\] Staging information
         * Current stage number
         * Number of stages remaining
         * List of parts activated by a stage (by stage number)
         * An event that fires on stage activation
 * Camera Part Manipulation
     * Set the FOV of a camera part by id.
     * Set camera part orientation (in craft local coordinates)
     * Lock camera part orientation (prevent user movement with the mouse)
 * Prompt user for input (using a dialog, pauses the game)
 * \[In Progress - @AnotherFireFox\] Closest Approach Information
     * Time of next closest approach
     * Distance at closest approach
 * Burn Node Manipulation
     * List burn nodes
     * Create a burn node at a given True Anomaly
     * Set burn node direction (in a vector relative to +X = prograde and +Y is the orbit normal)
     * Set burn node delta-v
     * Get orbital parameters after burn.
 * TCP & UPD Socket Clients
     * Create a client (and a connection in the TCP case) to a host and port
     * Send data as newline delimited lines of text (UTF-8 encoded)
     * New event for data received (again, one line at a time)
 * HTTP Client
     * Send http gets, posts, puts, deletes
     * New event for responses
     * Query string builder expression
     * Specify headers as a list of alternating key and value strings
     
